!3 Security Overview
Pages can be marked with three levels of security:

|''secure-read''|Only authenticated users can read the page|
|''secure-write''|Only authenticated users can write the page.|
|''secure-test''|Only authenticated users can test the page.|

These levels are not hierarchical.  secure-write does not imply secure-read.  Indeed, the three are completely independent flags that you can set on any page.

!3 Setting Security
You set the security of a page by going to it's properties and clicking on the appropriate checkboxes. If none of the checkboxes are checked, then the page is completely insecure and anybody can do anything to it.  This is the default.

!3 Security Inheritance
Pages inherit their security from their parent pages.  If a parent page has ''secure-read'' then all its children will be protected from reading, even though they don't have ''secure-read'' set themselves.  There is no way to relax security in child pages.  Where security is concerned, the parents rule.

!3 Details
 * If a unauthenticated user attempts to display a page that has ''secure-read'' set, he will be prompted for his username and password.  If he survives this authentication then he will be redirected to the requested page.
 * If an unauthenticated user attemptes to write a page that has ''secure-write'' set, he will be authenticated before the write is allowed to take place.
 * If an unauthenticated user attemptes to test a page that has ''secure-test'' set, he will be authenticated before the test is allowed to take place.  This works the same for both tests and suites.
 * A user must be authenticated to do any kind of refactoring.
 * A user must be authenticated to change the properties of a page.
 * A user must be authenticated to inspect or change the /files directory structure.  However, unauthenticated readers can read files from the /files directory.
 * Searching, WhereUsed, Sisterhood, and other queries of that kind are not secure and do not require authentication.

!3 Virtual Wiki
A virtual page inherits the security of its ''local'' parents, not its remote parents.  This is a security hole for reading and testing.  If the parent of a page has secure-read, but that page is accessed through a virtual wiki below the secure parent, then the security will be lost.  Fortunately this is only true for reading and testing.  Writing is never done over a virtual wiki, so it remains secure.  At this point we're not sure whether this is a real problem or not.  Let us know what you think.
!3 Authentication
The users and their passwords are supplied to FitNesse by using the -a as one of the CommandLineArguments.
!3 SPNEGO/GSSAPI Authentication
See >SpnegoAuthentication
